meanwhile those living in haa in
Northern Israel are preparing for a
potential conflict with the
iranian-backed Lebanese group Hezbollah
the port city was badly hit during the
second Lebanon war in 2006 and is
expected to be a Target once again a
Middle East correspondent Jenny Hill
visited the city and sent this
report deep underground a place of Last
Resort this car park now a hospital if
there's an attack on Hyer the vast
bunker will shelter the sick and take in
the injured when when when when is it
going to happen nobody knows we talk
about it a lot where in general people
are optimistic we hope it's going to be
in short
duration there are operating theaters a
Maternity Ward a command bunker and
supplies to keep going for 3
days they tell us here they're fully
prepared for an attack Israel insists
it's ready for any eventuality and yet
you can sense the unease you can feel
the
fear this port city is vulnerable
Lebanon and hezbollah's Rockets are
close by just look across the shipping
Lane you can see the Border it's a
taking time bomb any minute now it could
be like an alarm will I die will I have
time to go home to my family it will be
probably drones or Miss
and it will be problematic for us to
evacuate H but for who opened his coffee
shop 6 months ago the constant threat
has dulled the fear are you
afraid I'm not
afraid for the mayor of hia sleepless
nights he ran the city when Israel was
at war with Lebanon nearly 20 years ago
I'm very sad about it that there is a
fork in the Middle East
with their leaders are only concerned
about destruction killing fighting
instead of
building so Hyper's doctors continue to
prepare their Fortress hospital but
International diplomacy is ongoing hope
still perhaps they'll never have to use
it Jenny Hill BBC News
Hyer well let's now speak to our
correspondent Hugo Basher who's in
Beirut so Hugo we have The View there
from northern Israel in haa how about in
Lebanon where you are how are people
viewing the prospect of an escalation
the conflict between Israel and
hezb well Katherine everybody here in
Lebanon is waiting for this response
from Hezbollah yesterday we heard from
the leader of Hezbollah Hassan nazala uh
who said that uh the group is going to
retaliate after the assassination of a
senior Commander by Israel uh last week
here in Beirut in the group's uh
stronghold in the southern suburbs of
Beirut and he said this response is
coming uh it is going to be strong and
effective and that Hezbollah couldn't
treat this assassination as any other
attack so uh again uh everybody here
waiting to see what Hezbollah uh is
planning to do but obviously they are in
a very difficult position because they
know that they need to send a message
that this was uh
an attack uh that was uh significant for
the group it happened in the group's uh
stronghold here in Beirut in the capital
of the country but also um they need to
give a response that is measured uh so
to not provoke a huge Israeli response
and we know that some inside Israel are
in favor of of a of an attack of a
military campaign against Hezbollah tens
of thousands of Israeli resid
uh in Northern Communities uh remain uh
displaced because of these attacks that
have been happening along the border
between Lebanon and Israel almost every
day so there is the fear that uh this
expected uh response from Hezbollah
could trigger uh a reaction from Israel
and this could lead to an escalation of
hostilities between Hezbollah and Israel
and obviously uh in the last few days
countries have been urging their
citizens to leave Lebanon uh flights
here have been cancelled uh suspended
many tickets have sold out so people who
want to leave the country have now very
limited options but still uh there's no
sense of panic here uh there's no uh
there are no signs of people desperately
trying to leave Lebanon but the entire
country and the region uh is now waiting
for this response from Hezbollah and
Hugo we've heard from Hezbollah
congratulating Yaya Sena on his new role
as the overall leader of Hamas now just
tell us a bit more about the reaction
there in the region to Yano Sina
assuming this
position exactly so um Iran and
Hezbollah congratulating uh Yahya SWA
for this nomination uh many here seeing
this as a uh as a sign of defiance uh
because he was obviously the leader of
Hamas in Gaza now he is the leader of
Hamas replacing ish who was assassinated
in tan so he's consolidating his power
over Hamas obviously he was one of the
masterminds of the October the 7th
attacks on uh Israel and we also had
reaction from Israel saying that this
was another sign uh of the need uh to uh
kill uh Yahya SWA and also to destroy
Hamas now it's very interesting that he
is believed to be hiding uh in uh the
vast network of underground tunnels in
Gaza but he continues to dictate uh
hamas's actions especially when it comes
to the ceasefire and hostage deal uh
negotiations in Gaza so uh Anthony
blinkin the US Secretary of State again
said that he remained the primary
decider when it came to this uh deal and
the Hope obviously uh is that a deal can
be reached uh for a pause uh in the
fighting in Gaza also for those hostages
to be released but there's also the hope
that any kind of ceasefire in Gaza could
help deescalate tensions across the
region because again here in hollah has
been saying that they will observe here
in Lebanon any ceasefire in Gaza but as
these tensions continue I think hopes
diminishing that for now uh any kind of
deal can be reached Hugo thank you
that's our Middle East correspondent
Hugo basa in Beirut there